One thing that I think is greatly lacking in the world today is the ability to self-edit. 

Why does everyone you know, and many people you don't, need to know that you're having lunch with your mom today - or any other mundane minutia of your life? Why should anyone care? The obsession with social media is truly a byproduct of our culture's great narcissism. The belief that our culture is the best and greatest in the world, and I'm speaking here of what is generally known as the West, has permeated and morphed into such a beast that we now believe that we on an an individual level are fascinating to every person we may come in contact with - particularly on a digital platform. 

Not everyone you meet in the analog, pre-Millenial, face-to-face world is interesting. And none of us are fascinating to everyone we meet in this world either. Yet once we go digital, once we enter cyberspace, we suddenly want every person we possibly know to wallow in the cuteness of our aunt's cat. Why for goodness sake?!

The internet has allowed us to fall in love with our own reflections. The Western superpowers of the world have almost entirely learned that it is not ok to impress our cultures on the other people of the world in an invasionist manner. We are post-Imperialism. We have had a few minutes of agreement on the idea that we should not oppress or deny rights to other members of our species. We have Civil Rights Law and a UN Declaration of Human Rights. Some have even used the word post-Racial. We have been burned several times by the idea that we could control each other, need I mention those times in the last 120 years? And so we sit, each of us our own beautiful and powerful god. We have learned that we can't stomp around the earth telling people how great we are*. And at the same time we have developed our sense of individuality far beyond what was known by our ancestors. (This can be discussed later.) Now that our culture is no longer the great golden god, in this age of the post-Modern, we are left a minor god, leaning over a spring, unable to turn away from the beauty and wonder of our own face. 

Big Asterisk * The US's involvement in Iraq and Afganistan - particularly public statements made before the invasion of the later. 
